ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_rfsimulator/README.md, before:

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
  <tr style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
      <a href="http://www.openairinterface.org/">
         <img src="../../../doc/images/oai_final_logo.png" alt="" border=3 height=50 width=150>
         </img>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none; vertical-align: center;">
      <b><font size = "5">OAI Full Stack 5G-NR RF simulation with containers</font></b>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

This page is only valid for an `Ubuntu18` host.

**NOTE: this version (2021-10-05) is valid for the `v1.1.0` and `v1.2.0` versions of the `OAI 5G CN`.**

**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

1. [Retrieving the images on Docker-Hub](#1-retrieving-the-images-on-docker-hub)
2. [Deploy containers](#2-deploy-containers)
   1. [Deploy OAI 5G Core Network](#21-deploy-oai-5g-core-network)
   2. [Deploy OAI gNB in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode](#22-deploy-oai-gnb-in-rf-simulator-mode-and-in-standalone-mode)
   3. [Deploy OAI NR-UE in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode](#23-deploy-oai-nr-ue-in-rf-simulator-mode-and-in-standalone-mode)
3. [Check traffic](#3-check-traffic)
   1. [Check your Internet connectivity](#31-check-your-internet-connectivity)
   2. [Start the iperf server inside the NR-UE container](#32-start-the-iperf-server-inside-the-nr-ue-container)
   3. [Start the iperf client inside the ext-dn container](#33-start-the-iperf-client-inside-the-ext-dn-container)
4. [Un-deployment](#4-un-deployment)
5. [Explanations on the configuration in the docker-compose.yaml](##5-explanations-on-the-configuration-in-the-docker-composeyaml)
   1. [Making the NR-UE connect to the core network](#51-making-the-nr-ue-connect-to-the-core-network)
   2. [Making the gNB connect to the core network](#52-making-the-gnb-connect-to-the-core-network)

# 1. Retrieving the images on Docker-Hub #

Currently the images are hosted under the user account `rdefosseoai`.

This may change in the future.

Once again you may need to log on [docker-hub](https://hub.docker.com/) if your organization has reached pulling limit as `anonymous`.

```bash
$ docker login
Login with your Docker ID to push and pull images from Docker Hub. If you don't have a Docker ID, head over to https://hub.docker.com to create one.
Username:
Password:
```

Now pull images.

```bash
$ docker pull mysql:5.7
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-amf:latest
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-nrf:latest
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-smf:latest
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-spgwu-tiny:latest

$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-gnb:develop
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-nr-ue:develop
```

And **re-tag** them for tutorials' docker-compose file to work.

```bash
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-amf:latest oai-amf:latest
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-nrf:latest oai-nrf:latest
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-smf:latest oai-smf:latest
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-spgwu-tiny:latest oai-spgwu-tiny:latest

$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-gnb:develop oai-gnb:develop
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-nr-ue:develop oai-nr-ue:develop
```

```bash
$ docker logout
```

**CAUTION: 2021/10/05 with the release `v1.2.0` of the `CN5G`, the previous version was not compatible any-more.**

**This new version is working for both the `v1.1.0` and `v1.2.0` of the `CN5G`.**

# 2. Deploy containers #

![Deployment](./oai-end-to-end.jpg)

**CAUTION: this SHALL be done in multiple steps.**

**Just `docker-compose up -d` WILL NOT WORK!**

All the following commands **SHALL** be run from the `ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_rfsimulator` folder.

## 2.1. Deploy OAI 5G Core Network ##

```bash
$ cd ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_rfsimulator
$ docker-compose up -d mysql oai-nrf oai-amf oai-smf oai-spgwu oai-ext-dn
Creating network "rfsim5g-oai-public-net" with driver "bridge"
Creating network "rfsim5g-oai-traffic_net-net" with driver "bridge"
Creating rfsim5g-oai-nrf ... done
Creating rfsim5g-mysql      ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-spgwu ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-amf   ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-smf   ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn ... done
```

Wait for a bit.

```bash
$ docker-compose ps -a
       Name                     Command                  State                  Ports            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rfsim5g-mysql        docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld      Up (healthy)   3306/tcp, 33060/tcp         
rfsim5g-oai-amf      /bin/bash /openair-amf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   38412/sctp, 80/tcp, 9090/tcp
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn   /bin/bash -c  apt update;  ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nrf      /bin/bash /openair-nrf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 9090/tcp            
rfsim5g-oai-smf      /bin/bash -c /openair-smf/ ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 8805/udp, 9090/tcp  
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu    /openair-spgwu-tiny/bin/en ...   Up (healthy)   2152/udp, 8805/udp          
```

At this point, you can prepare a capture on the newly-created public docker bridges:

```bash
$ ifconfig 
...
rfsim5g-public: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.71.129  netmask 255.255.255.192  broadcast 192.168.71.191
        inet6 fe80::42:c4ff:fe2b:3d38  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
        ether 02:42:c4:2b:3d:38  txqueuelen 0  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 4  bytes 112 (112.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 7  bytes 626 (626.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

rfsim5g-traffic: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.72.129  netmask 255.255.255.192  broadcast 192.168.72.191
        inet6 fe80::42:b5ff:fed3:e732  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
        ether 02:42:b5:d3:e7:32  txqueuelen 0  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 2652  bytes 142335 (142.3 KB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 3999  bytes 23367972 (23.3 MB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0
...
```

## 2.2. Deploy OAI gNB in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode ##

**CAUTION: To execute this 2nd step, the whole `CN5G` SHALL be in `healthy` state (especially the `mysql` container).**

```bash
$ docker-compose up -d oai-gnb
rfsim5g-oai-nrf is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn is up-to-date
Creating rfsim5g-oai-gnb ... done
```

Wait for a bit.

```bash
$ docker-compose ps -a
       Name                     Command                  State                  Ports            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rfsim5g-mysql        docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld      Up (healthy)   3306/tcp, 33060/tcp         
rfsim5g-oai-amf      /bin/bash /openair-amf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   38412/sctp, 80/tcp, 9090/tcp
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn   /bin/bash -c  apt update;  ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-gnb      /opt/oai-gnb/bin/entrypoin ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nrf      /bin/bash /openair-nrf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 9090/tcp            
rfsim5g-oai-smf      /bin/bash -c /openair-smf/ ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 8805/udp, 9090/tcp  
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu    /openair-spgwu-tiny/bin/en ...   Up (healthy)   2152/udp, 8805/udp          
```

You can verify that the `gNB` is connected with the `AMF`:

```bagh
$ docker logs rfsim5g-oai-amf
...
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |----------------------------------------------------gNBs' information-------------------------------------------|
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |    Index    |      Status      |       Global ID       |       gNB Name       |               PLMN             |
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |      1      |    Connected     |         0x0       |         gnb-rfsim        |            208, 99             |
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
...
```

## 2.3. Deploy OAI NR-UE in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode ##

```bash
$ docker-compose up -d oai-nr-ue
rfsim5g-mysql is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-nrf is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-gnb is up-to-date
Creating rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue ... done
```

Wait for a bit.

```bash
$ docker-compose ps -a
       Name                     Command                  State                  Ports            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rfsim5g-mysql        docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld      Up (healthy)   3306/tcp, 33060/tcp         
rfsim5g-oai-amf      /bin/bash /openair-amf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   38412/sctp, 80/tcp, 9090/tcp
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn   /bin/bash -c  apt update;  ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-gnb      /opt/oai-gnb/bin/entrypoin ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue    /opt/oai-nr-ue/bin/entrypo ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nrf      /bin/bash /openair-nrf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 9090/tcp            
rfsim5g-oai-smf      /bin/bash -c /openair-smf/ ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 8805/udp, 9090/tcp  
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu    /openair-spgwu-tiny/bin/en ...   Up (healthy)   2152/udp, 8805/udp          
```

Making sure the OAI UE is connected:

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d:/opt/oai-nr-ue# ifconfig 
eth0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.71.137  netmask 255.255.255.192  broadcast 192.168.71.191
        ether 02:42:c0:a8:47:89  txqueuelen 0  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 224259  bytes 5821372018 (5.8 GB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 235916  bytes 7848786376 (7.8 GB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

lo: flags=73<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING>  mtu 65536
        inet 127.0.0.1  netmask 255.0.0.0
        loop  txqueuelen 1000  (Local Loopback)
        RX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

oaitun_ue1: flags=4305<UP,POINTOPOINT,RUNNING,NOARP,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 12.1.1.2  netmask 255.255.255.0  destination 12.1.1.2
        unspec 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  txqueuelen 500  (UNSPEC)
        RX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0
```

# 3. Check traffic #

## 3.1. Check your Internet connectivity ##

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d:/opt/oai-nr-ue# ping -I oaitun_ue1 -c 10 www.lemonde.fr
PING s2.shared.global.fastly.net (151.101.122.217) from 12.1.1.2 oaitun_ue1: 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=64.5 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=37.0 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=3 ttl=53 time=43.2 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=4 ttl=53 time=43.2 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=5 ttl=53 time=54.3 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=6 ttl=53 time=24.0 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=7 ttl=53 time=32.5 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=8 ttl=53 time=37.0 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=9 ttl=53 time=41.2 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=10 ttl=53 time=50.3 ms

--- s2.shared.global.fastly.net ping statistics ---
10 packets transmitted, 10 received, 0% packet loss, time 9011ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 24.035/42.765/64.557/10.904 ms
```

If it does not work, certainly you need to modify the DNS values in the docker-compose.

But you can also check with the `ext-dn` container (IP address is `192.168.72.135` in docker-compose)

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d# ping -I oaitun_ue1 -c 2 192.168.72.135
PING 192.168.72.135 (192.168.72.135) from 12.1.1.2 oaitun_ue1: 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.72.135: icmp_seq=1 ttl=63 time=10.9 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.72.135: icmp_seq=2 ttl=63 time=16.5 ms

--- 192.168.72.135 ping statistics ---
2 packets transmitted, 2 received, 0% packet loss, time 1001ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 10.939/13.747/16.556/2.810 ms
```

Let now try to check UDP traffic in Downlink.

You will need 2 terminals: one in the NR-UE container, one in the ext-dn container.

## 3.2. Start the `iperf` server inside the NR-UE container ##

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d:/opt/oai-nr-ue# iperf -B 12.1.1.2 -u -i 1 -s
------------------------------------------------------------
Server listening on UDP port 5001
Binding to local address 12.1.1.2
Receiving 1470 byte datagrams
UDP buffer size:  208 KByte (default)
------------------------------------------------------------
```

## 3.3. Start the `iperf` client inside the ext-dn container ##

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn /bin/bash
root@f239e31a0bd0:/# iperf -c 12.1.1.2 -u -i 1 -t 20 -b 500K
------------------------------------------------------------
Client connecting to 12.1.1.2, UDP port 5001
Sending 1470 byte datagrams, IPG target: 22968.75 us (kalman adjust)
UDP buffer size:  208 KByte (default)
------------------------------------------------------------
[  3] local 192.168.72.135 port 58800 connected with 12.1.1.2 port 5001
[ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth
[  3]  0.0- 1.0 sec  64.6 KBytes   529 Kbits/sec
[  3]  1.0- 2.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  2.0- 3.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  3.0- 4.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  4.0- 5.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  5.0- 6.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  6.0- 7.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  7.0- 8.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  8.0- 9.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  9.0-10.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 10.0-11.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 11.0-12.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 12.0-13.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 13.0-14.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 14.0-15.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 15.0-16.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 16.0-17.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 17.0-18.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 18.0-19.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 19.0-20.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  0.0-20.0 sec  1.22 MBytes   512 Kbits/sec
[  3] Sent 872 datagrams
[  3] Server Report:
[  3]  0.0-20.0 sec  1.22 MBytes   510 Kbits/sec   0.000 ms    3/  872 (0%)
```

Back on your NR-UE terminal you shall see:

```bash
[  3] local 12.1.1.2 port 5001 connected with 192.168.72.135 port 58800
[ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth        Jitter   Lost/Total Datagrams
[  3]  0.0- 1.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.113 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  1.0- 2.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.466 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  2.0- 3.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.770 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  3.0- 4.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.378 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  4.0- 5.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.614 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  5.0- 6.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.427 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  6.0- 7.0 sec  60.3 KBytes   494 Kbits/sec   1.507 ms    1/   43 (2.3%)
[  3]  7.0- 8.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.409 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  8.0- 9.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.525 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  9.0-10.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.393 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3] 10.0-11.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.377 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 11.0-12.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.501 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3] 12.0-13.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.788 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 13.0-14.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.466 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3] 14.0-15.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.381 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 15.0-16.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.417 ms    1/   44 (2.3%)
[  3] 16.0-17.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.569 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 17.0-18.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.492 ms    1/   45 (2.2%)
[  3] 18.0-19.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.376 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 19.0-20.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.589 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  0.0-20.0 sec  1.22 MBytes   510 Kbits/sec   1.551 ms    3/  872 (0.34%)
```

The `500 Kbits/sec` value may change depending on your CPU power!

# 4. Un-deployment #

```bash
$ docker-compose down
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue  ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-gnb    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-smf    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-amf    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-spgwu  ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-nrf    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-mysql      ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue  ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-gnb    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-smf    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-amf    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-spgwu  ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-nrf    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-mysql      ... done
Removing network rfsim5g-oai-public-net
Removing network rfsim5g-oai-traffic_net-net
```

# 5. Explanations on the configuration in the `docker-compose.yaml` #

## 5.1. Making the NR-UE connect to the core network ##

The NR-UE **SHALL** be provisioned in the core network, especially in the `SQL` database and in the `AMF`.

* in AMF section of `docker-compose.yaml` --> `OPERATOR_KEY=c42449363bbad02b66d16bc975d77cc1`
* in NR-UE section                        --> `OPC: 'C42449363BBAD02B66D16BC975D77CC1'

Both values shall match!

This value is also present in the `oai_db.sql` file:

```bash
INSERT INTO `users` VALUES ('208990100001100','1','55000000000000',NULL,'PURGED',50,40000000,100000000,47,0000000000,1,0xfec86ba6eb707ed08905757b1bb44b8f,0,0,0x40,'ebd07771ace8677a',0xc42449363bbad02b66d16bc975d77cc1);
```

As you can see, 2 other values shall match in the NR-UE section of `docker-compose.yaml`:

* `FULL_IMSI: '208990100001100'`
* `FULL_KEY: 'fec86ba6eb707ed08905757b1bb44b8f'`

We are also using a dedicated `oai-smf.conf` for the `SMF` container: the `oai` DNN shall match the one in  the NR-UE section of `docker-compose.yaml` (`DNN: oai`).

## 5.2. Making the gNB connect to the core network ##

Mainly you need to match the PLMN in `gNB`, `AMF` and `SPGWU` parameters:

* `AMF`
  - `MCC=208`
  - `MNC=99`
  - `PLMN_SUPPORT_TAC=0x0001`
  - ...
* `SPGWU`
  - `MCC=208`
  - `MNC=99`
  - `TAC=1`
* `gNB`
  - `MCC: '208'`
  - `MNC: '99'`
  - `TAC: 1`

The `ST` and `SD` values shall also match.

Commit message:

Update README.md for CU/DU split deployment option

ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_rfsimulator/README.md, after:

<table style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
  <tr style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none;">
      <a href="http://www.openairinterface.org/">
         <img src="../../../doc/images/oai_final_logo.png" alt="" border=3 height=50 width=150>
         </img>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td style="border-collapse: collapse; border: none; vertical-align: center;">
      <b><font size = "5">OAI Full Stack 5G-NR RF simulation with containers</font></b>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

This page is only valid for an `Ubuntu18` host.

**NOTE: this version (2021-10-05) is valid for the `v1.1.0` and `v1.2.0` versions of the `OAI 5G CN`.**

**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

1. [Retrieving the images on Docker-Hub](#1-retrieving-the-images-on-docker-hub)
2. [Deploy containers](#2-deploy-containers)
   1. [Deploy OAI 5G Core Network](#21-deploy-oai-5g-core-network)
   2. [Deploy OAI gNB in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode](#22-deploy-oai-gnb-in-rf-simulator-mode-and-in-standalone-mode)
   3. [Deploy OAI NR-UE in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode](#23-deploy-oai-nr-ue-in-rf-simulator-mode-and-in-standalone-mode)
3. [Check traffic](#3-check-traffic)
   1. [Check your Internet connectivity](#31-check-your-internet-connectivity)
   2. [Start the iperf server inside the NR-UE container](#32-start-the-iperf-server-inside-the-nr-ue-container)
   3. [Start the iperf client inside the ext-dn container](#33-start-the-iperf-client-inside-the-ext-dn-container)
4. [Un-deployment](#4-un-deployment)
5. [Explanations on the configuration in the docker-compose.yaml](##5-explanations-on-the-configuration-in-the-docker-composeyaml)
   1. [Making the NR-UE connect to the core network](#51-making-the-nr-ue-connect-to-the-core-network)
   2. [Making the gNB connect to the core network](#52-making-the-gnb-connect-to-the-core-network)

# 1. Retrieving the images on Docker-Hub #

Currently the images are hosted under the user account `rdefosseoai`.

This may change in the future.

Once again you may need to log on [docker-hub](https://hub.docker.com/) if your organization has reached pulling limit as `anonymous`.

```bash
$ docker login
Login with your Docker ID to push and pull images from Docker Hub. If you don't have a Docker ID, head over to https://hub.docker.com to create one.
Username:
Password:
```

Now pull images.

```bash
$ docker pull mysql:5.7
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-amf:latest
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-nrf:latest
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-smf:latest
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-spgwu-tiny:latest

$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-gnb:develop
$ docker pull rdefosseoai/oai-nr-ue:develop
```

And **re-tag** them for tutorials' docker-compose file to work.

```bash
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-amf:latest oai-amf:latest
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-nrf:latest oai-nrf:latest
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-smf:latest oai-smf:latest
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-spgwu-tiny:latest oai-spgwu-tiny:latest

$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-gnb:develop oai-gnb:develop
$ docker image tag rdefosseoai/oai-nr-ue:develop oai-nr-ue:develop
```

```bash
$ docker logout
```

**CAUTION: 2021/10/05 with the release `v1.2.0` of the `CN5G`, the previous version was not compatible any-more.**

**This new version is working for both the `v1.1.0` and `v1.2.0` of the `CN5G`.**

# 2. Deploy containers #

![Deployment](./oai-end-to-end.jpg)

**CAUTION: this SHALL be done in multiple steps.**

**Just `docker-compose up -d` WILL NOT WORK!**

All the following commands **SHALL** be run from the `ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_rfsimulator` folder for a deployment with monolithic gNB.

For a deployment with the gNB split in CU and DU components, the following commands **SHALL** be run from the `ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_f1_rfsimulator` folder. 

## 2.1. Deploy OAI 5G Core Network ##

```bash
$ cd ci-scripts/yaml_files/5g_rfsimulator
$ docker-compose up -d mysql oai-nrf oai-amf oai-smf oai-spgwu oai-ext-dn
Creating network "rfsim5g-oai-public-net" with driver "bridge"
Creating network "rfsim5g-oai-traffic_net-net" with driver "bridge"
Creating rfsim5g-oai-nrf ... done
Creating rfsim5g-mysql      ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-spgwu ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-amf   ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-smf   ... done
Creating rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn ... done
```

Wait for a bit.

```bash
$ docker-compose ps -a
       Name                     Command                  State                  Ports            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rfsim5g-mysql        docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld      Up (healthy)   3306/tcp, 33060/tcp         
rfsim5g-oai-amf      /bin/bash /openair-amf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   38412/sctp, 80/tcp, 9090/tcp
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn   /bin/bash -c  apt update;  ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nrf      /bin/bash /openair-nrf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 9090/tcp            
rfsim5g-oai-smf      /bin/bash -c /openair-smf/ ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 8805/udp, 9090/tcp  
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu    /openair-spgwu-tiny/bin/en ...   Up (healthy)   2152/udp, 8805/udp          
```

At this point, you can prepare a capture on the newly-created public docker bridges:

```bash
$ ifconfig 
...
rfsim5g-public: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.71.129  netmask 255.255.255.192  broadcast 192.168.71.191
        inet6 fe80::42:c4ff:fe2b:3d38  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
        ether 02:42:c4:2b:3d:38  txqueuelen 0  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 4  bytes 112 (112.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 7  bytes 626 (626.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

rfsim5g-traffic: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.72.129  netmask 255.255.255.192  broadcast 192.168.72.191
        inet6 fe80::42:b5ff:fed3:e732  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
        ether 02:42:b5:d3:e7:32  txqueuelen 0  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 2652  bytes 142335 (142.3 KB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 3999  bytes 23367972 (23.3 MB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0
...
```

## 2.2. Deploy OAI gNB in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode ##

**CAUTION: To execute this 2nd step, the whole `CN5G` SHALL be in `healthy` state (especially the `mysql` container).**

The gNB can be deployed either in monolithic mode, or in CU/DU split mode.
- For a deployment with a monolithic gNB:
```bash
$ docker-compose up -d oai-gnb
rfsim5g-oai-nrf is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn is up-to-date
Creating rfsim5g-oai-gnb ... done
```
- For a deployment with the gNB split in CU and DU components:
```bash
#Deployment of the CU
$ docker-compose up -d oai-cu
```

```bash
#Deployment of the DU
$ docker-compose up -d oai-du
```
Wait for a bit.

```bash
$ docker-compose ps -a
       Name                     Command                  State                  Ports            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rfsim5g-mysql        docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld      Up (healthy)   3306/tcp, 33060/tcp         
rfsim5g-oai-amf      /bin/bash /openair-amf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   38412/sctp, 80/tcp, 9090/tcp
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn   /bin/bash -c  apt update;  ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-gnb      /opt/oai-gnb/bin/entrypoin ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nrf      /bin/bash /openair-nrf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 9090/tcp            
rfsim5g-oai-smf      /bin/bash -c /openair-smf/ ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 8805/udp, 9090/tcp  
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu    /openair-spgwu-tiny/bin/en ...   Up (healthy)   2152/udp, 8805/udp          
```

You can verify that the `gNB` is connected with the `AMF`:

```bagh
$ docker logs rfsim5g-oai-amf
...
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |----------------------------------------------------gNBs' information-------------------------------------------|
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |    Index    |      Status      |       Global ID       |       gNB Name       |               PLMN             |
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |      1      |    Connected     |         0x0       |         gnb-rfsim        |            208, 99             |
[AMF] [amf_app] [info ] |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
...
```

## 2.3. Deploy OAI NR-UE in RF simulator mode and in Standalone Mode ##

```bash
$ docker-compose up -d oai-nr-ue
rfsim5g-mysql is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-nrf is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn is up-to-date
rfsim5g-oai-gnb is up-to-date
Creating rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue ... done
```

Wait for a bit.

```bash
$ docker-compose ps -a
       Name                     Command                  State                  Ports            
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rfsim5g-mysql        docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld      Up (healthy)   3306/tcp, 33060/tcp         
rfsim5g-oai-amf      /bin/bash /openair-amf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   38412/sctp, 80/tcp, 9090/tcp
rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn   /bin/bash -c  apt update;  ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-gnb      /opt/oai-gnb/bin/entrypoin ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue    /opt/oai-nr-ue/bin/entrypo ...   Up (healthy)                               
rfsim5g-oai-nrf      /bin/bash /openair-nrf/bin ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 9090/tcp            
rfsim5g-oai-smf      /bin/bash -c /openair-smf/ ...   Up (healthy)   80/tcp, 8805/udp, 9090/tcp  
rfsim5g-oai-spgwu    /openair-spgwu-tiny/bin/en ...   Up (healthy)   2152/udp, 8805/udp          
```

Making sure the OAI UE is connected:

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d:/opt/oai-nr-ue# ifconfig 
eth0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.71.137  netmask 255.255.255.192  broadcast 192.168.71.191
        ether 02:42:c0:a8:47:89  txqueuelen 0  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 224259  bytes 5821372018 (5.8 GB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 235916  bytes 7848786376 (7.8 GB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

lo: flags=73<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING>  mtu 65536
        inet 127.0.0.1  netmask 255.0.0.0
        loop  txqueuelen 1000  (Local Loopback)
        RX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

oaitun_ue1: flags=4305<UP,POINTOPOINT,RUNNING,NOARP,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 12.1.1.2  netmask 255.255.255.0  destination 12.1.1.2
        unspec 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  txqueuelen 500  (UNSPEC)
        RX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0
```

# 3. Check traffic #

## 3.1. Check your Internet connectivity ##

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d:/opt/oai-nr-ue# ping -I oaitun_ue1 -c 10 www.lemonde.fr
PING s2.shared.global.fastly.net (151.101.122.217) from 12.1.1.2 oaitun_ue1: 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=64.5 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=37.0 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=3 ttl=53 time=43.2 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=4 ttl=53 time=43.2 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=5 ttl=53 time=54.3 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=6 ttl=53 time=24.0 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=7 ttl=53 time=32.5 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=8 ttl=53 time=37.0 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=9 ttl=53 time=41.2 ms
64 bytes from 151.101.122.217 (151.101.122.217): icmp_seq=10 ttl=53 time=50.3 ms

--- s2.shared.global.fastly.net ping statistics ---
10 packets transmitted, 10 received, 0% packet loss, time 9011ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 24.035/42.765/64.557/10.904 ms
```

If it does not work, certainly you need to modify the DNS values in the docker-compose.

But you can also check with the `ext-dn` container (IP address is `192.168.72.135` in docker-compose)

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d# ping -I oaitun_ue1 -c 2 192.168.72.135
PING 192.168.72.135 (192.168.72.135) from 12.1.1.2 oaitun_ue1: 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.72.135: icmp_seq=1 ttl=63 time=10.9 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.72.135: icmp_seq=2 ttl=63 time=16.5 ms

--- 192.168.72.135 ping statistics ---
2 packets transmitted, 2 received, 0% packet loss, time 1001ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 10.939/13.747/16.556/2.810 ms
```

Let now try to check UDP traffic in Downlink.

You will need 2 terminals: one in the NR-UE container, one in the ext-dn container.

## 3.2. Start the `iperf` server inside the NR-UE container ##

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue /bin/bash
root@bb4d400a832d:/opt/oai-nr-ue# iperf -B 12.1.1.2 -u -i 1 -s
------------------------------------------------------------
Server listening on UDP port 5001
Binding to local address 12.1.1.2
Receiving 1470 byte datagrams
UDP buffer size:  208 KByte (default)
------------------------------------------------------------
```

## 3.3. Start the `iperf` client inside the ext-dn container ##

```bash
$ docker exec -it rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn /bin/bash
root@f239e31a0bd0:/# iperf -c 12.1.1.2 -u -i 1 -t 20 -b 500K
------------------------------------------------------------
Client connecting to 12.1.1.2, UDP port 5001
Sending 1470 byte datagrams, IPG target: 22968.75 us (kalman adjust)
UDP buffer size:  208 KByte (default)
------------------------------------------------------------
[  3] local 192.168.72.135 port 58800 connected with 12.1.1.2 port 5001
[ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth
[  3]  0.0- 1.0 sec  64.6 KBytes   529 Kbits/sec
[  3]  1.0- 2.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  2.0- 3.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  3.0- 4.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  4.0- 5.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  5.0- 6.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  6.0- 7.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  7.0- 8.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3]  8.0- 9.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  9.0-10.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 10.0-11.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 11.0-12.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 12.0-13.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 13.0-14.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 14.0-15.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 15.0-16.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 16.0-17.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 17.0-18.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3] 18.0-19.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec
[  3] 19.0-20.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec
[  3]  0.0-20.0 sec  1.22 MBytes   512 Kbits/sec
[  3] Sent 872 datagrams
[  3] Server Report:
[  3]  0.0-20.0 sec  1.22 MBytes   510 Kbits/sec   0.000 ms    3/  872 (0%)
```

Back on your NR-UE terminal you shall see:

```bash
[  3] local 12.1.1.2 port 5001 connected with 192.168.72.135 port 58800
[ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth        Jitter   Lost/Total Datagrams
[  3]  0.0- 1.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.113 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  1.0- 2.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.466 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  2.0- 3.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.770 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  3.0- 4.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.378 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  4.0- 5.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.614 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  5.0- 6.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.427 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  6.0- 7.0 sec  60.3 KBytes   494 Kbits/sec   1.507 ms    1/   43 (2.3%)
[  3]  7.0- 8.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.409 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3]  8.0- 9.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.525 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  9.0-10.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.393 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3] 10.0-11.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.377 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 11.0-12.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.501 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3] 12.0-13.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.788 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 13.0-14.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.466 ms    0/   44 (0%)
[  3] 14.0-15.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.381 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 15.0-16.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.417 ms    1/   44 (2.3%)
[  3] 16.0-17.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.569 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 17.0-18.0 sec  63.2 KBytes   517 Kbits/sec   1.492 ms    1/   45 (2.2%)
[  3] 18.0-19.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.376 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3] 19.0-20.0 sec  61.7 KBytes   506 Kbits/sec   1.589 ms    0/   43 (0%)
[  3]  0.0-20.0 sec  1.22 MBytes   510 Kbits/sec   1.551 ms    3/  872 (0.34%)
```

The `500 Kbits/sec` value may change depending on your CPU power!

# 4. Un-deployment #

```bash
$ docker-compose down
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue  ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-gnb    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-smf    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-amf    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-spgwu  ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-oai-nrf    ... done
Stopping rfsim5g-mysql      ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-nr-ue  ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-gnb    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-ext-dn ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-smf    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-amf    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-spgwu  ... done
Removing rfsim5g-oai-nrf    ... done
Removing rfsim5g-mysql      ... done
Removing network rfsim5g-oai-public-net
Removing network rfsim5g-oai-traffic_net-net
```

# 5. Explanations on the configuration in the `docker-compose.yaml` #

## 5.1. Making the NR-UE connect to the core network ##

The NR-UE **SHALL** be provisioned in the core network, especially in the `SQL` database and in the `AMF`.

* in AMF section of `docker-compose.yaml` --> `OPERATOR_KEY=c42449363bbad02b66d16bc975d77cc1`
* in NR-UE section                        --> `OPC: 'C42449363BBAD02B66D16BC975D77CC1'

Both values shall match!

This value is also present in the `oai_db.sql` file:

```bash
INSERT INTO `users` VALUES ('208990100001100','1','55000000000000',NULL,'PURGED',50,40000000,100000000,47,0000000000,1,0xfec86ba6eb707ed08905757b1bb44b8f,0,0,0x40,'ebd07771ace8677a',0xc42449363bbad02b66d16bc975d77cc1);
```

As you can see, 2 other values shall match in the NR-UE section of `docker-compose.yaml`:

* `FULL_IMSI: '208990100001100'`
* `FULL_KEY: 'fec86ba6eb707ed08905757b1bb44b8f'`

We are also using a dedicated `oai-smf.conf` for the `SMF` container: the `oai` DNN shall match the one in  the NR-UE section of `docker-compose.yaml` (`DNN: oai`).

## 5.2. Making the gNB connect to the core network ##

Mainly you need to match the PLMN in `gNB`, `AMF` and `SPGWU` parameters:

* `AMF`
  - `MCC=208`
  - `MNC=99`
  - `PLMN_SUPPORT_TAC=0x0001`
  - ...
* `SPGWU`
  - `MCC=208`
  - `MNC=99`
  - `TAC=1`
* `gNB`
  - `MCC: '208'`
  - `MNC: '99'`
  - `TAC: 1`

The `ST` and `SD` values shall also match.
